Q&A 3

Q: In the assignment page10 it is said: SCO neglected? Page 11: SCO(not simulated)? Not to be simulated???
--> Why do we use Gardner? Just for sampling time shift? 
Note: Semi answered
A: Yes, Gardner is to compensate time shift

**** Q:Where is Frequency phase error/phase delay corrected?together with remaining linear phase of CFO? 
Is the constant phase offset corrected with the linear interpolation of the pilots?

A: Differential cross correlation is used to compensate phase offset and interpolation between pilots is used if the estimation of the phase offset is not good enough, i.e. if you have a remaining offset
Longer pilot would be better for crosscorrelation, but then you have a lot of overhead

**** Q:For phase interpolation (5.4). It is said that you linearly interpolate phase between 2 pilots--> yields phase of data. But in that case we have to buffer data, check the phase between pilots, interpolate, adjust buffered data and continue?

Compute phase difference based on interpolation and then adjust phase for data?

A: Yes, for example if you compute a phase for pilot 1 equal to 0.1 and a phase for pilot 2 equal to 0.5, there would be a phase offset of 0.4 between the pilots. If you have 1000 data points, you would spread this phase difference over the data, thus shift the phase of each point by 0.4/1000.
NOTE: The implementation of the interpolation is only theoretical! You do not need to implement this yourself, just execute the 4 steps (section 5.5 in pdf).


S:Derive analytically the baseband model of the channel including the synchronisation errors.
Q: Just slide 10 or also 12,14,17?

A: You just have to show you understand the theory and sort of summarize the results from the slides in a limited number of lines.

S: Are the frame and frequency acquisition algorithms optimal? If yes, give the optimisation criterion. 
Q: Yes? ML estimator?

A: No, the ML likelihood estimation is what we would implement ideally (slide 54). This requires the estimation of n and delta_omega together and is a very complex method. As a result, you would get the optimal minimum for both parameters, so this would be the optimal algorithm. What we implement in practice is the differential correlator, which is a good estimate, but it is sub-optimal.

*** Subject: How do you separate the impact of the carrier phase drift and ISI due to the CFO in your simulation?
 Q: Is this when everything is implemented or do you mean implement it piece by piece?
 Possible answer: In ToA/CFO estimation ISI compensation and after that use pilots to compensate phase drift?
 
Is the ISI first compensated by Gardner and afterwards in the phase correction with the pilots

A: No. Gardner does not really compensate ISI, this is the job of the pilot correlation.
 
Subject: How do you select the simulated Eb/N0 ratio?
Q: ?
A: The assistant didn't know. We probably have to look at the effect of high SNR on the algorithms and the effect of low SNR on the algorithms and compare the 2.

Subject:How do you select the lengths of the pilot and data sequences?}
Q:EUHM...?
Possible answer: For pilot more than 4 symbols to be able to estimate phase correctly and data few times pilot length to make sure interpolation does not cause ambiguities? Not too long because then large phase shift(shouldnt be more than 2 pi between pilots). Not too small because then large overhead from pilots and very small phase differences (probably?)  Length of data would in my opinion best be adapted depending on phase, not possible so what is good alternative?

A: It is a trade off between getting a good phase offset estimation and sending too much overhead. Longer pilots are better to simulate the phase shift, but you send too many useless symbols. If the pilots are long enough, you don't even need to implement the interpolation between pilots.

S: In which order are the synchronisation effects estimated and compensated. Why?
Possible answer: First SCO and time shift to get correct sampling and get rid of some causes of ISI. Then CFO to completely get rid of ISI and determine begin of pilots. Then phase because compensating phase when you have ISI is much too complex and useless?

A: The steps in the pdf are each to compensate a different non ideality (SCO, CFO, time shift, phase shift) and can be implemented in any order (they are independent). When you look at the full system, the order of implementation is important: Gardner first to sample at correct times, pilot stuff after